General Doc Improvements (#566)
nf-core/eager: docs/usage.md

6. Due to limitations of downstream tools (e.g. FastQC), sample IDs maybe
   truncated after the first `.` in the name, Ensure file names are unique prior
   to this!

> 7. For input BAM files  you should provide small decoy reference genome with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. For input BAM files you should provide small decoy reference genome with
```

    downstream analyses.
- nf-core/eager will only merge multiple _lanes_ of sequencing runs with the
  same single-end or paired-end configuration
- Accordingly nf-core/eager will not merge _lanes_ of FASTQs with BAM files
  (unless you use `--run_convertbam`), as only FASTQ files are lane-merged
  together.
- Same libraries that are sequenced on different sequencing configurations (i.e
  single- and paired-end data), will be merged after mapping and will _always_
  be considered 'paired-end' during downstream processes
  - **Important** running DeDup in this context is _not_ recommended, as PE and
    SE data at the same position will _not_ be evaluated as duplicates.
    Therefore not all duplicates will be removed.
  - When you wish to run PE/SE data together `-dedupper markduplicates` is
    therefore preferred.
  - An error will be thrown if you try to merge both PE and SE and also supply
    `--skip_merging`.
  - If truly you want to mix SE data and PE data but using mate-pair info for PE
    mapping, please run FASTQ preprocessing mapping manually and supply BAM
    files for downstream processing by nf-core/eager

>   - If you _regularly_ want to run the situation above, please leave an feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you _regularly_ want to run the situation above, please leave a feature
```

--fasta '/<path>/<to>/my_reference.fasta'
```

You need to provide an input FASTA even if you do not do any mapping (e.g.

> supplying BAM files). You should small decoy reference genome with pre-made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supplying BAM files). You should use a small decoy reference genome with pre-made
```

--skip_collapse  --input '*_{R1,R2}_*.fastq'
```

It is important to use the paired-end wildcard globbing as `--skip_collapse`

> can only be used on paired-end data! :warning: If you run this and also with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can only be used on paired-end data! :warning: If you provide this option together with
```

##### `--bwaalnn`

> Defineshow many mismatches from the reference are allowed in a read. By default

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines how many mismatches from the reference are allowed in a read. By default
```

```

Normally suggest a previous nextflow run (on the same folder) was not cleanly

> killed by a user (e.g. using ctrl + z to hard kill an crashed run).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
killed by a user (e.g. using ctrl + z to hard kill a crashed run).
```

perform initial screening of samples in the context of ancient human population
genetics research.

> > :warning: this tutorial does not describe how to install and set-up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> :warning: this tutorial does not describe how to install and set up
```

#### Tutorial Metagenomics - Introduction

The field of archaeogenetics is now expanding out from analysing the genomes of
single organisms but to whole communities of taxa. One particular example is of
human associated microbiomes, as preserved in ancient palaeofaeces (gut) or
dental calculus (oral). This tutorial will give a basic example on how to set up
nf-core/eager to perform initial screening of samples in the context of ancient
microbiome research.

> > :warning: this tutorial does not describe how to install and set-up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> :warning: this tutorial does not describe how to install and set up
```

Assuming the run completed without any crashes (if problems do occur, check all
against [#usage](#pipeline-options) all parameters are as expected, or check the
[FAQ](#troubleshooting-and-faqs), we can now check our results in `results/`.

##### Tutorial Pathogen Genomics - MultiQC Report

In here there are many different directories containing different output files.
The first directory to check is the `MultiQC/` directory. In here you should
find a `multiqc_report.html` file. You will need to view this in a web browser,
so I recommend either mounting your server to your file browser, or downloading
it to your own local machine (PC/Laptop etc.).

Once you've opened this you can go through each section and evaluate all the
results. For example, I normally look for things like:

General Stats Table:

- Do I see the expected number of raw sequencing reads (summed across each set
  of FASTQ files per library) that was requested for sequencing?
- Does the percentage of trimmed reads look normal for aDNA, and do lengths
  after trimming look short as expected of aDNA?
- Does the Endogenous DNA (%) columns look reasonable (high enough to indicate

>   you have recieved enough coverage for downstream, and/or do you lose an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  you have received enough coverage for downstream, and/or do you lose an
```

  unusually high reads after filtering )
- Does ClusterFactor or '% Dups' look high (e.g. >2 or >10% respectively -  high
  values suggesting over-amplified or badly preserved samples (i.e. low

>   complexity).

Reviewer: Add warning that for captured libraries the cluster factor may be higher just because of the enrichment of the library

- Do you see an increased frequency of C>Ts on the 5' end of molecules in
  the mapped reads?
- Do median read lengths look relatively low (normally <= 100 bp) indicating
  typically fragmented aDNA?
- Does the Median coverage and percent >3x (or whatever you set) show sufficient
  coverage for reliable SNP calls and that a good proportion of the genome is

>   covered indicating you have the right reference genome?

Reviewer: Also that the decrease between the different % of the genome covered is gradual and not drastic

importantly you should look in `deduplication` for your de-duplicated BAM files
(e.g. for viewing in IGV), bedtools for depth (X) and breadth (%) coverages of
annotations of your reference (e.g. genes), `multivcfanalyzer` for final SNP
tables etc.

#### Tutorial Pathogen Genomics - Clean up

Finally, I would recommend cleaning up your `work/` directory of any
intermediate files (if your `-profile` does not already do so). You can do this
by going to above your `results/` and `work/` directory, e.g.

```bash
cd /<path>/<to>/projectX_preprocessing20200727
```

and running

```bash
nextflow clean -f -k
```

#### Tutorial Pathogen Genomics - Summary

In this this tutorial we have described an example on how to set up an
nf-core/eager run to process microbial aDNA for a relatively standard pathogen
genomics study for phylogenetics and basic functional screening. This includes
preform some simple quality control checks, mapping, genotyping, and SNP table
generation for downstream analysis of the data. Additionally, we described what
to look for in the run summary report generated by MultiQC and where to find

> output files that can be used for downstream analysis.

Reviewer: Want to add a warning that this showcases the functionality of the pipeline, but the shown parameters/settings are not the ones which are normally used, like you would not want to have het calls in your SNP alignment for phylogenetic inference.

--fasta '../Reference/genome/Yersinia_pestis_C092_GCF_000009065.1_ASM906v1.fa' \
--bwa_index '../Reference/genome/' \
--fasta_index '../Reference/genome/Yersinia_pestis_C092_GCF_000009065.1_ASM906v1.fa.fai' \
--seq_dict '../Reference/genome/Yersinia_pestis_C092_GCF_000009065.1_ASM906v1.fa.dict' \
--outdir './results/' \
- w './work/' \
--complexity_filter_poly_g \
--bwaalnn 0.01 \
--bwaalnk 32 \
--run_bam_filtering \
--bam_mapping_quality_threshold 25 \
--bam_unmapped_type 'discard' \
--dedupper 'markduplicates' \
--run_trim_bam \
--bamutils_clip_half_udg_left 2 \
--bamutils_clip_half_udg_right 2 \
--bamutils_clip_none_udg_left 3 \
--bamutils_clip_none_udg_right 3 \
--run_bedtools_coverage \
--anno_file '../Reference/genome/Yersinia_pestis_C092_GCF_000009065.1_ASM906v1.gff' \
--run_genotyping \
--genotyping_tool 'ug' \
--genotyping_source 'trimmed' \
--gatk_ug_jar '../bin/GenomeAnalysisTK.jar' \
--gatk_ploidy 2 \
--gatk_ug_mode 'EMIT_ALL_SITES' \
--gatk_ug_genotype_model 'SNP' \
--run_multivcfanalyzer \
--write_allele_frequencies \
--min_base_coverage 5 \
--min_allele_freq_hom 0.9 \
--min_allele_freq_het 0.1 \
--additional_vcf_files '../vcfs/*.vcf.gz'

> <...>

Author: ```suggestion
```
